Package: gen_hurst 0.1 (2017-12-05)
Author: Joachim Reinhardt
Email: joachim.reinhardt@fu-berlin.de
Required gretl version: 2016a
Data requirement: Time-series data
Description: generalized Hurst exponent estimation

Help text:


The public function gen_hurst() provides a generalization of gretl's built-in hurst
command to estimate the long-range dependence parameter of a time series.
With default parameters, the function works like the built-in hurst command, with
several adjustments possible.
Also refer to the help text for the built-in hurst command.

--------------------
The function takes the following arguments:
(1) series X: required argument, the time series to be analyzed
(2) int method: optional, the method of estimation. The default is 0 (=R/S
Analysis). Set to 1 for DFA (Detrended Fluctuation Analysis).
(3) scalar r: optional, determines the ratio of successive sub-sample sizes.
Default
is 2 (the size of the first sub-sample is twice the size of the next, and so on).
Set to any number between 1 and 2 in order to adjust successive sample size ratios.
(4) int min_size: optional, sets the size of the smallest sub-sample. Default is 8,
with a minimum value of 3.
(5) bool suppress_printout: optional, default is 0 (=no). Set to 1 in order to just
obtain the return matrix, suppressing printout and plot.
(6) matrix *lfl[null]: optional, acts as a placeholder to store the log-log matrix
of the fluctuation measures (R/S or Detrended Fluctuation) and respective sample
sizes. This matrix can be used for further analysis, e.g. estimation of crossover
phenomena.

Per default, the function returns an estimate for the Hurst exponent.
As for the built-in hurst command, a minimum of 128 observations is required.
The gen_hurst function applies the subsampling procedure twice for each subsample
size, starting once from the beginning and once from the end of the whole sample.
This is done in order to account for "residual” observations at the end of the
sample which might be cut off in the subsampling procedure. As this is not done in
the original hurst command, results may differ slightly from those obtained by
built-in command.


--------------------
DFA (Detrended Fluctuation Analysis) is a method for estimating the Hurst exponent
that works similar to R/S analysis, but involves the elimination of local trends in
each sub-sample. Here, a linear (OLS) detrending method is employed. For a good
exposition on the methodology, see
Kantelhardt, J.W., Koscielny-Bunde, E., Rego, H.H., Havlin, S., & Bunde, A. 2001.
Detecting long-range correlations with detrended fluctuation analysis. Physica A:
Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 295(3), 441-454.

In contrast to estimation by R/S, DFA can yield estimates of the Hurst exponent
greater than 1. If the H of a time series estimated by R/S is close to 1 and the
DFA estimate is larger than one, differencing the data will yield consistent
estimates for both methods. See sample script for an example.

--------------------

Any reports concerning bugs or suggestions on additional features are welcome and
encouraged.
Extensive support from Dr. Sven Schreiber is greatfully acknowledged.
--------------------
Changelog:
0.1, December 2017: initial release